TST: torch compile tests (#1725)
huggingface/peft: docs/source/developer_guides/torch_compile.md

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# torch.compile

In PEFT, [torch.compile](https://pytorch.org/tutorials/intermediate/torch_compile_tutorial.html) works for some but not all features. The reason why it won't always work is because PEFT is highly dynamic in certain places (loading and switching between multiple adapters, for instance), which can cause trouble for `torch.compile`. In other places, `torch.compile` may work, but won't be as fast as expected because of graph breaks.

> If you don't see an error, it doesn't necessarily mean that `torch.compile` worked correctly. It might give you an output, but the output is incorrect. Check the table below to see which features work and which ones don't with torch.compile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't see an error, it doesn't necessarily mean that `torch.compile` worked correctly. It might give you an output, but the output is incorrect. This guide describes what works with torch.compile and what doesn't.
```

> [!TIP]
> Unless indicated otherwise, the default `torch.compile` settings were used.

## Training and inference

> ### Features that work with `torch.compile`

Reviewer: I think we can even remove these smaller subsections (Features that work with torch.compile and Features that don't work with torch.compile) to keep things cleaner and avoid duplicate subsection titles

```suggestion
```

Author: Done, could you please do a (hopefully) last check?

Reviewer: Looks good, thanks for iterating! ❤️

an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

⚠️ Note that this file is in Markdown but contain specific syntax for our doc-builder (similar to MDX) that may not be
rendered properly in your Markdown viewer.

-->

# Using PEFT with `torch.compile`

In PEFT, `torch.compile` works for some but not all features. The reason why it won't always work is because PEFT is highly dynamic in certain places (loading and switching between multiple adapters, for instance), which can cause trouble for `torch.compile`. In other places, `torch.compile` may work, but won't be as fast as expected because of graph breaks.

Note that just because there is no error, it doesn't mean that `torch.compile` works correctly. It might give you an output but the output is incorrect. Therefore, if you're unsure if you can use `torch.compile` in your PEFT use case, please consult this document and make sure that your case is covered.

Note: Unless indicated otherwise, the default `torch.compile` settings were used.

> ## Features that work with `torch.compile`
> 
> These features work with `torch.compile`. Everything listed below was tested with a causal LM:
> 
> ### Training and inference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Training and inference

torch.compile is supported for training with Transformers [`~transformers.Trainer`] class or a custom PyTorch loop. You could also use torch.compile for inference and generation. The table below shows which adapters are compatible and incompatible for training with torch.compile.

| torch.compile compatible | torch.compile incompatible     |
|--------------------------|--------------------------------|
| AdaLoRA                  | LoKr                           |
| BOFT                     | LoRA targeted embedding layers |
| IA3                      |                                |
| Layer Norm Tuning        |                                |
| LoHa                     |                                |
| LoRA                     |                                |
| LoRA + DoRA              |                                |
| OFT                      |                                |
| VeRA                     |                                |
```

> - Training with `Trainer` from 🤗 transformers.
> - Training with a custom PyTorch loop.
> - Inference
> - Generation
> 
> The following adapters were tested:
> 
> - AdaLoRA
> - BOFT
> - IA³
> - Layer Norm Tuning
> - LoHa
> - LoRA
> - LoRA + DoRA
> - OFT
> - VeRA

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Advanced PEFT features

Below are some of the more advanced PEFT features that work. They were all tested with LoRA.

- `modules_to_save` (i.e. `config = LoraConfig(..., modules_to_save=...)`)
- Merging adapters (one or multiple)
- Merging multiple adapters into one adapter (i.e. calling `model.add_weighted_adapter(...)`)

Generally, we can expect that if a feature works correctly with LoRA and is also supported by other adapter types, it should also work for that adapter type.

> ## Features that don't work with `torch.compile`
> 
> ### Training and inference
> 
> The following adapters don't work correctly for training or inference when using `torch.compile`:
> 
> - LoKr
> - LoRA targeting embedding layers
> 
> ### Advanced PEFT features
> 
> These more advanced PEFT features don't work in conjunction with `torch.compile`. Tests were run with LoRA:
> 
> - Using PEFT adapters with quantization (bitsandbytes)
> - Inference with multiple adapters
> - Unloading (i.e. calling `model.merge_and_unload()`)
> - Disabling adapters (i.e. using `with model.disable_adapter()`)
> - Mixed adapter batches (i.e. calling `model(batch, adapter_names=["__base__", "default", "other", ...])`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Advanced PEFT features
> 
> Below are some of the more advanced PEFT features that work. They were all tested with LoRA.
> 
> - `modules_to_save` (i.e. `config = LoraConfig(..., modules_to_save=...)`)
> - Merging adapters (one or multiple)
> - Merging multiple adapters into one adapter (i.e. calling `model.add_weighted_adapter(...)`)
> 
> Generally, we can expect that if a feature works correctly with LoRA and is also supported by other adapter types, it should also work for that adapter type.
> 
> ## Features that don't work with `torch.compile`
> 
> ### Training and inference
> 
> The following adapters don't work correctly for training or inference when using `torch.compile`:
> 
> - LoKr
> - LoRA targeting embedding layers
> 
> ### Advanced PEFT features
> 
> These more advanced PEFT features don't work in conjunction with `torch.compile`. Tests were run with LoRA:
> 
> - Using PEFT adapters with quantization (bitsandbytes)
> - Inference with multiple adapters
> - Unloading (i.e. calling `model.merge_and_unload()`)
> - Disabling adapters (i.e. using `with model.disable_adapter()`)
> - Mixed adapter batches (i.e. calling `model(batch, adapter_names=["__base__", "default", "other", ...])`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Advanced PEFT features

PEFT supports a number of features for working with adapters, such as merging and saving, but not all of them work with torch.compile. Check the table below to find out which features are compatible with torch.compile and which ones aren't.

| torch.compile compatible                                                                                   | torch.compile incompatible                                                                                                                         |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| [modules_to_save](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/package_reference/lora#peft.LoraConfig.modules_to_save) | usage with quantization (bitsandbytes)                                                                                                             |
| merging one or more adapters                                                                               | inference with multiple adapters                                                                                                                   |
| merging multiple adapters into one adapter                                                                 | unloading weights with [merge_and_unload](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/v0.10.0/en/package_reference/lora#peft.LoraModel.merge_and_unload)      |
|                                                                                                            | disabling adapters with [disable_adapter](https://huggingface.co/docs/peft/v0.10.0/en/package_reference/peft_model#peft.PeftModel.disable_adapter) |
|                                                                                                            | mixing adapter batches (`model(batch, adapter_names=["__base__", "default", "other"])`)                                                            |
```

## Test cases

> All the use cases listed above are tested inside of `peft/tests/test_torch_compile.py`. If you want to check in more detail how we tested a certain feature, please go to that file and check the test that corresponds to your use case.

Reviewer: I would add a link directly to the file so it's easier for users to access.

<Tip>

> If you have another use case where you know that `torch.compile` does or does not work with PEFT, please contribute to PEFT by letting us know about this or by opening a PR to add this use case to the covered test cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have another use case where you know that `torch.compile` does or does not work with PEFT, please contribute by letting us know or by opening a PR to add this use case to the covered test cases.
```
